### example08 - blinky & serial command processor using re2c

This example expands on the example07 and adds serial input.  It illustrates how to have two task interact. task0 provides a command line processor that affects the blink_task. These are the commands you can enter:

```
example08 - led command line processor
command> help
Help:
  help | 'h' | '?'         - display this message
  led                      - display led settings
  led off                  - led off
  led on                   - led on no blink
  led blink                - led blink on 500 msec, off for 500 msec
  led blink msec           - led blink on for msec and then off for msec
  led blink ontime,offtime - on for ontime, off for offtime
  uptime                   - display msecs since power on
command> led
led is Blinking on time is 100, off time is 900
command> led off
command> led
led is Off
command> led on
command> led
led is On
command> led blink
command> led
led is Blinking on time is 500, off time is 500
command> led blink 250
command> led
led is Blinking on time is 250, off time is 250
command> led blink 1000
command> led
led is Blinking on time is 1000, off time is 1000
command> led blink 50,450
command> led
led is Blinking on time is 50, off time is 450
command>
```
The command line is parsed using a tokenizer function ( process() ) generated by the re2c utility. You can read about it here:
http://re2c.org. Basically, you provide a .re file and it produces a .cpp file.  Unlike flex, it is light weight and you can have multiple instances of the tokenizers for different purposes.  The generation of the .cpp has been integrated into the Makefile.

Arduino provides a cooperative multitasking Scheduler library that is actually very portable. It only works with cortex-m3 and cortex-m0 chips. Thankfully, the bluepill is a cortex-m3.  The Scheduler class code includes the Ardunio.h header, although it doesn't actually use any Arduino code or structures. We provide a fake Arduino.h that includes 'inttypes.h' and 'malloc.h'. The Scheduler class provides a very small cooperative multi tasking configuration perfect for our minimal code size philosophy.

This example creates a minimal configuration to run two tasks; one blinking the PC13 led and a second using USART1 to output the millisecond tickcnt. Much like the example06 that used FreeRTOS, each task runs until it yields.  We use newlib to provide implemenatations of malloc() and iprintf().  In reality, task creation only calls malloc one time and never releases the memory for the task.  There is one rule; task loops must yield periodically or other tasks won't run. This is accomplished by calling delay() or yield().  The code in main.cpp illustrates this technique. 

The application code uses register access only, no HAL, LL, no libopencm3. The structures and defines in the stm32f103xb.h CMSIS device header are used to configure and manipulate the peripherals and clocks.  As previously stated, this code does use the Arduino Scheduler. Look at the code, it really has no Arduino dependecies. I consider it safe to use and it adds little overhead to our setup but brings great flexibility.

This verison of the makefile can handle multiple files. They can be c, c++, .s and .S files.  It links using g++. For this example the top level file is main.cpp.

Note: This configuration makes a lot of assumptions, mostly that you are running linux or OSX. It expects that arm-none-eabi-gcc and openocd are installed and in your $PATH.

Note: The Arduino Scheduler class has its own separate license see: ../3rd_party/Scheduler code for details.

Note: Make sure you checkout the submodule in 3rd_party. The easiest way is to clone recursively:
```
$ git clone --recursive https://github.com/RickKimball/bluepill
```

### Features:

* Arduino cooperative task scheduler added as a github submodule. This is much smaller and less complex than FreeRTOS. It only handles the task switching, no helper atomic classes.
* flexible Makefile automatically compiles and links, with autodependencies
* main in 'C++'
* vector table in 'C'
* STM32CubeMX stm32f103c8.ld with c++ support
* SysTickh interrupt handler configured to create a msec timer tick.
* PC13 led blink
* uses newlib for malloc()/free() routines
* overrides _read() and _write() to implement console input/output
* using iprintf and command line processing has grown our code, still fairly small:
```
$ make
TARGET=firmware finished
   text	   data	    bss	    dec	    hex	filename
   7492	    120	    124	   7736	   1e38	build/src/firmware.elf

```
### Source Files
This example compiles and links files 

  * **main.cpp** - main, blink_task, loop, delay, Reset_Handler, SysTick_Handler
  * **sysclock.h** - routines for setting SYSCLK called from Reset_Handler
  * **process.re** - re2c source code for lexer/tokenizer
  * **process.cpp** - generated source code for process() function
  * **vector.c** - contains the vector_table (VTOR) in 'C'
  * **Scheduler/Scheduler.cpp** - contains Arduino cooperative multi tasker code

### make target goals:

* **all** - builds all the files and produces a main.elf and main.hex
* **ALL** - builds all the files and produces a main.elf, main.hex, main.bin and all listing files
* **clean** - deletes all generated files
* **debug** - launches openocd and an xterm running arm-none-eabi-gdb with main.elf
* **erase** - uses openocd to do a mass erase
* **install** - uses openocd to load main.elf or main.hex onto flash or ram
* **kill** - sometimes openocd gets stuck, uses killall to force it to exit
* **openocd** - launches openocd and connects via an xterm running telnet interface
* **ram** - build and run the code all from RAM, assumes you move the boot0 and boot1 jumpers to '1'
* **size** - shows the size of main.elf

You can invoke make with the V=1 enviroment variable for verbose command output:

`$ make V=1 clean ALL install
`

See the makefile for other things you can easily override.
